---
layout: post
title: "m/42 - 2024 Status Update"
---

It's been a while since my [last post](./2023-08-26-paint.md). This doesn't mean I haven't been busy with the bike and a lot has happened. I just haven't had the time to write about it. So let's first try to catch up with what's been going on.

## Assembly
Once the paint dried up it was start to put things back together. This is probably the most enjoyable part and the least dirty as well.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/images/m42/assembly/" %}

## Installing the battery
The battery holder is made to be installed using the threaded holes in the frame, that are meant for the water bottle holder.
Unfortunately a military bike from 1942 doesn't feature such holes. To solve this problem I designed and 3D printed holders that would be
mounted to the frame using plumbing clamps. It turned out pretty good, I think, and the battery is now securely mounted to the frame.
I had to use much larger bolts for the clamps which gave me a chance to use the milling machine at the Makers link for the very first time.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/images/m42/milling/" %}

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/images/m42/battery_mount/" %}

## Let there be light 💡
This part was also a lot of fun. I really wanted to keep the original head and tail lights but hook it up to the ebike battery.
I received a front light lamp with the ebike kit, so I took the LED and PCB from it and installed it in the original head light housing.
For the tail light, I designed a 3D printed holder that would fit 3 hand wired LEDs connected in series, to make them work out of the box with
the 6V light output from the ebike controller. Finally I mounted the 3D printed holder to the original tail light housing.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/images/m42/lights/" %}

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/images/m42/red_lights/" %}
